---
layout: post
title: AGU's Open Science Projects in 2023
feature-img: assets/img/pexels/AGU-stars-silhouette-night-1314x400.jpg
author: Kristina Vrouwenvelder
tags: [Posts]
---
# Find out more about AGU's open science projects in 2023. 

## AGU Open Science Leadership Recognition Award
This new award is [open for its inaugural round of nominees now](https://www.agu.org/Honor-and-Recognize/Honors/Union-Prizes/Open-Science-Recognition-Prize) (nominations due April 12th). The award will recognize a person or team for outstanding work in advancing Open Science related to Earth and space science and its impact globally

## On-Demand Open Science and Data Help Desk

AGU and ESIP (NASA, NOAA, USGS, NSF supported) have been sponsoring and developing an Open Science and Data Help Desk at major Earth, space, and environmental sciences society meetings for the last 7 years. This has been a highly successful program connecting researchers with more than 300 repository and informatics experts in the Earth sciences to address domain-specific, researcher-specific questions. 

We’re now partnering with HELIOS, a consortium of 90 research universities and institutions, to explore extending this service to an on-demand virtual desk, with in-person presence at major meetings. This would greatly increase the benefit to researchers and allow the rapid development on discipline-specific knowledge that would accelerate open science leading practices worldwide. A “geophysics” resource could serve as a pilot for expanding into other broad subjects.

## Earth and Space Sciences Community of Practice with RDA 

AGU and [RDA](https://rd-alliance.org/) are discussing standing up **an international community of practice around ESS open science that would substantiate leading practices at the subject (broad) and disciplinary level.** AGU has already brought together leading stakeholders for this effort in earlier partnerships related to the formation of COPDESS (Coalition on Publishing Data in the Earth and Space Sciences) and FAIR Data work (see https://copdess.org). RDA provides an overall governance and international engagement. This would provide governance around and codify the outputs of the Open Science and Data Help Desk and provide international coordination in policies and practices.

## Notebooks Now! (https://data.agu.org/notebooks-now/about)

AGU is leading a Sloan-funded effort to **elevate computational notebooks to a primary scholarly output, including providing peer review and publication.**  We have funding to develop a pilot and progress has been very promising. AGU plans to adopt the pilot into its journals or as a new journal. The infrastructure for supporting this effort at scale is nascent.  Some development and support will be needed; researchers will need some incentives to begin to publish notebooks. There is a great opportunity to incentivize adoption of this workflow, probably later in 2023, for example, by supporting the infrastructure (binderhub), needed development (XML transforms), and supporting new journals or notebooks as a publication (APC or offsets).

## Stay connected:
You can read more about AGU’s work in Open Science on our [homepage](https://data.agu.org/).

To receive (infrequent) emails about AGU’s work in Open Science, you are welcome to [sign up to our email list](https://forms.monday.com/forms/b4284b3ea07f6e4d801f03451d5f7ac4?r=use1).
